[Term Entry] trojan malware (#3020)
Codecademy/docs: content/cybersecurity/concepts/malware/terms/trojan/trojan.md

---
Title: 'Trojan'

> Description: 'Trojan is a form of downloaded malware that disguises itself as a legitimate application so it can trick users into downloading it, thus taking control of over their computer and other devices'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'A trojan is a form of malware that disguises itself as a legitimate application so it can trick users into installing it, thus taking control of over their computer and other devices.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Cybersecurity'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Cybersecurity'
  - 'Malware'
CatalogContent:
  - 'introduction-to-cybersecurity'
  - 'paths/fundamentals-of-cybersecurity'
---

> Like [the war tactic](https://www.history.com/topics/ancient-greece/trojan-war) used by the ancient Greeks in their fight against Troy, **Trojan** is a malware pretends to be a legitimate application, like an online game, so it can gain control over a user's computer and other devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like [the war tactic](https://www.history.com/topics/ancient-greece/trojan-war) used by the ancient Greeks in their fight against Troy, A **Trojan** is a malware pretends to be a legitimate application, like an online game, so it can gain control over a user's computer and other devices.
```

## How Trojans gain access to devices

The most common ways Trojans infect devices are:

> - User clicking on and accepting pop-up notifications without reading and fully comprehending its content
> - Failing to keep devices updated with current versions of their software
> - Downloading pirated media, such as video games, music, and movies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- User clicking on and accepting pop-up notifications without reading and fully comprehending its content.
- Failing to keep devices updated with current versions of their software.
- Downloading pirated media, such as video games, music, and movies.
```

## Negatives of Trojans

> - Monitors a person's activity on a device
> - Send an organization's business reports and sensitive data to ransom and other parts of the dark web
> - Control a site's internet traffic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Monitors a person's activity on a device.
- Sends an organization's business reports and sensitive data to malicious third parties.
- Controls a site's internet traffic.
```

## Types of Trojans

Common forms of Trojan malware are:

- Distributed Denial of Service(DDoS) attack: Used to enable a [DDoS attack](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/cybersecurity/cyber-attack/ddos-attack) as the cybercriminal creates access points to attach to a device's network.

> - SMS Trojan: Sends and prevents people from receving text messages. Also generates money for cybercriminals by sending text messages to premium-rate phone numbers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- SMS Trojan: Sends and prevents people from receving text messages. Also generates money for cybercriminals by sending text messages to premium-rate phone numbers.
```

- Banking Trojan: Designed specifically to steal data from bank accounts, credit cards, debit cards, and other online payment sites.

## Prevention Strategies

Here are some ways to prevent Trojans from infecting a device.

> - Use strong passwords
> - Use a new tab to login to accounts
> - Update devices' software on a regular basis
> - Never click on unsolicited links and download unexpected attachments
> - Download an anti-virus program from a reputable source like [McAfee](https://www.mcafee.com/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use strong passwords.
- Use a new tab to login to accounts.
- Update devices' software on a regular basis.
- Never click on unsolicited links and download unexpected attachments.
- Download an anti-virus program from a reputable source like [McAfee](https://www.mcafee.com/).
```
